opus-compiler/README.md, before:

# CISC 458 Course Project

Introducing *Opus*, a custom mini programming language designed to be modern and elegant, 
implemented to meets the requirements outlined by the criteria. As part of Phase 1,
we focus on lexical analysis by defining a set of regular expressions to tokenize 
*Opus* source code and reporting  any lexical errors.

## Statement of Originality
CISC 458 Course Project: Design and Implement a Custom Mini Programming Language 
Processor (hereinafter "this project") represents **original work created by team**.
All development progress of the code has been committed to our Git repository. 
It serves as a transparent record of our contributions, where any growth of Opus can be 
verified by accessing the commit history.

**Opus was entirely designed and implemented without any usage of AI tools.** 
That is, all the C code was manually written and refined by the team. The only instances 
where AI tools were utilized were for generating function documentation within the code 
and aiding in the writing of reports and documentation to enhance clarity and consistency.

---

## Build and Run Opus
To build and run Opus Compiler, **download and uncompress the submission**, or clone
the Opus repository by using the following commands.
```shell
git clone https://github.com/boyanfan/opus-source.git
cd opus-source/opus-compiler
```
If you choose to download and uncompress the submission, make sure the current 
working directory is `../opus-source/opus-compiler` by using `pwd` to check. Then use
the following commands to build.
```shell
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build .
```
Once built, you can run Opus to compile a specific Opus source file (`.opus` files). 
For example, the following command compiles `correct.opus` from `test` folder.
```shell
./Opus ../tests/arithmetic.opus
```
You can always open an `.opus` file using any text editor or IDEs. Now it is time to start 
writing your own Opus codes! Create a plain text file, write codes that confirms the grammar
described by `opus-guide` document, save your code with `.opus` extension, 
and use the compiler you just built to compile it using the following command!
```shell
./Opus <your-opes-source-code>
```

## Next Step
In Phase 2 we extend the existing lexer by adding a parser that constructs a syntax tree,
based on a manually defined Context-Free Grammars (CFGs). The parser will validate 
the syntactic structure of Opus programs to ensure that statements and expressions 
conform to Opus grammar rules.

Commit message:

Add trouble-shooting guide for building.

opus-compiler/README.md, after:

# CISC 458 Course Project

Introducing *Opus*, a custom mini programming language designed to be modern and elegant, 
implemented to meets the requirements outlined by the criteria. As part of Phase 1,
we focus on lexical analysis by defining a set of regular expressions to tokenize 
*Opus* source code and reporting  any lexical errors.

## Statement of Originality
CISC 458 Course Project: Design and Implement a Custom Mini Programming Language 
Processor (hereinafter "this project") represents **original work created by team**.
All development progress of the code has been committed to our Git repository. 
It serves as a transparent record of our contributions, where any growth of Opus can be 
verified by accessing the commit history.

**Opus was entirely designed and implemented without any usage of AI tools.** 
That is, all the C code was manually written and refined by the team. The only instances 
where AI tools were utilized were for generating function documentation within the code 
and aiding in the writing of reports and documentation to enhance clarity and consistency.

---

## Build and Run Opus
To build and run Opus Compiler, **download and uncompress the submission**, or clone
the Opus repository by using the following commands.
```shell
git clone https://github.com/boyanfan/opus-source.git
cd opus-source/opus-compiler
```
If you choose to download and uncompress the submission, make sure the current 
working directory is `../opus-source/opus-compiler` by using `pwd` to check. Then use
the following commands to build.
```shell
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build .
```
Once built, you can run Opus to compile a specific Opus source file (`.opus` files). 
For example, the following command compiles `correct.opus` from `test` folder.
```shell
./Opus ../tests/arithmetic.opus
```
You can always open an `.opus` file using any text editor or IDEs. Now it is time to start 
writing your own Opus codes! Create a plain text file, write codes that confirms the grammar
described by `opus-guide` document, save your code with `.opus` extension, 
and use the compiler you just built to compile it using the following command!
```shell
./Opus <your-opes-source-code>
```

### **Troubleshooting Build Issues**

If you encounter issues while building *Opus*, first ensure that all **prerequisites** are 
correctly installed. Run `cmake --version` to confirm that **CMake 3.20+** is available 
and `gcc --version` or `clang --version` to check for a valid **C compiler**. If CMake 
fails to locate a compiler, ensure your system's environment variables 
(e.g., `PATH` on Linux/macOS or system variables on Windows) include the compiler's 
installation directory.

If errors occur during `cmake --build .`, try removing the `build` directory 
(`rm -rf build` on Linux/macOS or `rmdir /s /q build` on Windows), then re-run the CMake 
configuration process. For missing dependencies, ensure all necessary libraries are 
installed. If using **Make**, verify that it is correctly installed (`make --version`).

If issues persist, examine CMake's output logs for detailed error messages, which often 
indicate missing files, incorrect paths, or compiler-related issues.

---

## Next Step
In Phase 2 we extend the existing lexer by adding a parser that constructs a syntax tree,
based on a manually defined Context-Free Grammars (CFGs). The parser will validate 
the syntactic structure of Opus programs to ensure that statements and expressions 
conform to Opus grammar rules.
